---
layout: default
title: My Mac and I
category: general
keywords:
- general
- Apple
- Macintosh
- Mac Mini
- Unix
- Linux
- OS X
- FreeBSD
- charles marshall
- charles
- marshall
- web developer
- birmingham UK
- birmingham
description:
---
Until recently I'd barely even looked at a Mac. I used to be under the common miss-conception that they were only any good for design and looking pretty.

Plying my trade using mostly Linux, Windows and the odd Unix systemI was always a fan of the stability and security of the 'Nix way. On the other side the compatibility and of course the plethora of games available on Windows is a draw.

With OS X being based on FreeBSD there is a happy third alternative. I know this is a bit behind the times, but I've never quite got round to writing this before but this time I was spurred into writing this by my recent purchase. A Mac Mini!

I couldn't help it, its small, perfectly formed and more powerful then my tower PC! With top class software, great compatibility and some amazing games I cant think of a reason not to own a Mac any more. Especially now you can have two buttons on your mouse!

The fact is I've now completely converted, even to the extent where I use an iMac at work and an old PowerBook for a laptop.

Since owning my Mac I've really been enjoying using text mate. A truly wonderful piece of editing software, it comes with syntax highlighting and help files for virtually every single commonly used programming language. It even includes utilities for svn!

I know there are some down sides to using a Mac, but they are getting fewer all the time. I am now officially a Mac Fan!

Now where did I put my ipod.... ;)						