---
layout: default
title: Powered by Useless Utilities
category: rant
keywords:
- rant
- "e-on"
- water
- gas
- connection
- address
- database
- property
- charles marshall
- charles
- marshall
- web developer
- birmingham UK
- birmingham
description:"You'd think that in this modern age of computers, the internet,inter-connectivity and nationalised databases that finding information about a property would be merely a few mouse clicks away."
---
You'd think that in this modern age of computers, the internet,inter-connectivity and nationalised databases that finding information about a property would be merely a few mouse clicks away.

How wrong could I have been!

After providing them with the complete address (not just a guessed one mind you, but the official full address straight from Royal Mail) surely finding the property would be easy.

Postcode, no luck there; full address; still can't find it. What more do they want, the longitude and latitude? Eventually after hounding the letting agent I finally got hold of the previous account number and hey presto, they found it.

This problem was repeated at almost every one of the utility providers I contacted. Maybe it was something I was doing, but then how did other companies find my flat straight away?

After a little bit of investigation I found the crux of the problem. Approximately 18 months ago the building that is now my block of flats was a field.

It seems that these large, national companies simply weren't updating their information. Why is this? Budget cuts? Poor practices? Laziness? Ignorance?

With an ever increasing demanding for new housing this seems a worrying trend. Does this mean that every new house or block of flats won't appear on the books of basic utility provides for over a year?

Maybe it was just my flat; maybe I moved in in-between them updating their databases; maybe I'm just unlucky. If not, they really need re-evaluate their business practices and update! Well, that is my rant over for this week!						