---
layout: defauly
title: WAA Buys Crap Web Company...
category: rant
---
Now I left WAA a while ago, but I still like to see their web people doing good work and do tend to moan at them when they don't! Regardless of what minor layout issue, semantic faux pas or just something I think is wrong (I moan alot).

I mildly bearated them in a previous post regarding the appalling flash site they launched that replaced a nicely marked up (if somewhat overly pink) site. Since the relaunch of www.waa.co.uk their google site index has dropped from over 5000 pages to just over 600! All of the old content they had (mostly articles by Chris Tomlinson) has been removed, nothing new has been added. At least the people they had in web were smart enough to be using open source tech and support the open source community. Looks like that's aboout to end.

WAA have recently bought a new web company, "MarketingNet":http://marketingnet.com/. A java and .net based company. Guess all the remaining good points about WAAs web department are about to be replaced by a huge chunk of paper work, administration and bureaucracy. No longer can they claim to be agile or cutting edge when your using tech like that.

However, this is not the worst part about the new company. That honour goes to their own website; which doesn't work properly and generally looks like something a first year uni student would knock up in dreamweaver. Large parts of the navigation are relative links which have then been copied and pasted in to the other pages, meaning that the home link that goes to index.html doesn't take to the home page most of the time; when you're in a sub section such as 'about us' if your not careful you can end up going to /aboutus/aboutus/aboutus/index.html. Of course that page doesn't exist.

I just hope they got a bargain basement deal on these guys as the quality of work is just plain shocking; reminds me of the early 90s before anyone web person had heard of quality control.						