---
layout: default
title: jQuery Diagonal Accordion
category: jquery
keywords:
- jQuery
- accordion
- diagonal
- "diagonal accordion"
- plugin
- javascript
description: "A while ago we got a very random design from a client; they wanted an accordion, but at 45 degrees.. Yes, that's right.. "
introduction: "<p>A while ago we got a very random design from a client; they wanted an accordion, but at 45 degrees.. Yes, that's right..</p><p>It makes the visible content area tiny, and clearly restricts the size of the page so in my opinion it's mostly pointless. However, still better than using flash!</p>"
---


A while ago we got a very random design from a client; they wanted an accordion, but at 45 degrees.. Yes, that's right.. 

It makes the visible content area tiny, and clearly restricts the size of the page so in my opinion it's mostly pointless. However, still better than using flash!

<div class='inlineform clearfix' id="diagonal_madness">
  <div class="accordion">
		<p>Some really random intro copy goes in here.... </p>
		<p>Here is some more... </p>
	</div>
	<div class="accordion">
		<p>Filling this is not as easy as it looks... </p>
		<p><a href='#'>Here is a link to nothing..</a> It's just here to prove that it works inside the accordion</p>
	</div>
	<div class="accordion">
		<p>Yeah! More random copy!</p>
		<p>I'm running out of things to put in these things... <a href="#">more!</a></p>
	</div>
	<div class="accordion">
		<p>What do you thing should go in here?</p>
		<p>Who knows, <a href="#">just don't click here</a>..</p>
	</div>
	<div class="accordion">
		<p>I give up, this is going to be the last accordion...</p>
		<p>Honest, the very last one..</p>		
		<p>No more; FIN</p>
	</div>
</div>

It does take some options, but I can't remember what they all do, it's been too long since I wrote it! "Have a look at the project on git hub":http://github.com/tinyjs/diagonal-accordion- or "download the source, in a zip file":http://github.com/tinyjs/diagonal-accordion-/zipball/master instead.

Triggering the script is easy enough:

<pre>
  <script type="text/javascript">
  jQuery(document).ready(function(){
  	jQuery('#diagonal_madness').diagonalaccordion();
  });
  </script>  
</pre>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="/diagonal-accordion/styles.css" type="text/css" media="all" charset="utf-8" />
<script src="http://github.com/tinyjs/diagonal-accordion-/raw/master/jquery.diagonal-accordion.js" type="text/javascript" charset="utf-8"></script>
<script type="text/javascript">
jQuery(document).ready(function(){
	jQuery('#diagonal_madness').diagonalaccordion();
});
</script>